---
layout: post
title: GSoC Week 1&#58; Kirk is incompetent
tags: scummvm
---

It's been a week and change since GSoC started. When we left off, I'd just finished
implementing pathfinding. In the week since then, I've been busy implementing the action
system, which is central to any adventure game.

## The action menu and inventory

First thing's first: we need to be able to select our actions.

{% include image.html url="/images/gsoc-week-1-action-menu.gif" %}

This game's interface is... questionable. You click on a body part to select your action,
ie. clicking on the mouth selects the "speak" action. It may look cool and all, but the
selection areas are just a bit too small. I also really dislike how the game is constantly
warping the mouse around - I never have any idea where it will be after closing a menu...
but alas, my job is to recreate the game faithfully, not to change the things I deem
clunky.

The inventory was the next logical target. By this point, I had also figured out hotspot
detection; I started to get a good grasp on how the game handles interaction between
objects.

{% include image.html url="/images/gsoc-week-1-inventory.gif" %}

Inventory items were also a good test subject for implementing the "look" action.

{% include image.html url="/images/gsoc-week-1-look-tricorder.png" %}

## Room-specific code

With the interaction system just about figured out at this point, it was time to look at
room-specific code. This is what makes the missions tick; each room has a series of "event
hooks" that may run when the room is first entered, when a certain amount of time passes,
or when you try to vandalize a sign with a phaser.

{% include image.html url="/images/gsoc-week-1-vandalize-sign.png" %}

Rewriting this will easily be the most time-consuming part of the project, and I suspect
that future progress updates won't be much more than "I finished rewriting these rooms,
check it out".

That being said, I finished rewriting the first room, check it out.

<iframe width="560" height="373" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/sJpijZ1ukuI" frameborder="0" allowfullscreen></iframe>

If all goes well, maybe the first mission will be completable by next week's blog post.
Here's hoping.
