---
layout: post
title: GSoC Week 7&#58; What does Quetzalcoatl need with a starship?
date: 2018-07-06T02:30:00Z
tags: scummvm
---

This week, in addition to finishing up the Harry Mudd mission, I've done the first half of
mission 5, "Feathered Serpent". This is the only mission to be divided into two "away
mission" segments, with another ship segment between the two.

In classic Star Trek style, we encounter the Aztec god Quetzalcoatl (Quetzecoatl?)
attempting to bring enlightenment to the Klingons. Lt. Buchert must have jinxed us when he
mentioned the absence of any angry gods last mission.

{% include image.html url="/images/gsoc-week-7-quetzecoatl.png" %}

The first half of the mission consists of eight rooms, which is technically a record so
far, but some rooms are little more than scenic pathways. It's also very linear compared
to other missions. There's only one case where you might have a reason to backtrack at
all, and often you're prevented from going back to previous rooms entirely.

{% include image.html url="/images/gsoc-week-7-mission-start.png" description="This mission has some rather pretty screens." %}

## Mission oddities

There is a case where you can scan Lt. Stragey (the redshirt) while he's dead, and
someone who is... clearly not McCoy, say "He's dead, Jim". Was DeForest Kelley sick that
day? Well, he says the same line in other places, so I substituted one of those in.

There are at least two ways to get an infinitely high score in this mission. The first way
is to repeatedly try to grab a snake in the second room. Whether you succeed or not, you
get a point each time. (Normally the snake retreats into a hole before you can grab it.)

The second way is to repeatedly solve one of the puzzles. I don't really want to give away
any solutions, but there's a particular action you can do repeatedly on the lake screen.
The first time, it wards off a monster, but after that it serves no purpose, despite
continuing to give you points.

Unfortunately, based on my limited testing, it looks like your score does cap at 100% in
the final report.

## Unused stuff & version differences

The devs seemed to have a good sense of humor; in particular, the original floppy version
was snarkier in places. If you use a knife on yourself, it says "You won't break your
contract to the network that easily!"

That line was changed later; this particular piece of text changed between the original
floppy release, the mac release, and the voiced release.  Supporting all 3 will surely be
a nightmare.

Also, it turns out that the redshirts are named after the devs, which somehow makes the
redshirt deaths seem even funnier.

{% include image.html url="/images/gsoc-week-7-redshirt-death.gif" description="A personal favourite of mine." %}

I've also encountered the string "\*\*\*Game Over, Man!\*\*\*" in the game files multiple
times, at least back in the first mission; perhaps it was used before they implemented the
"game over" menu properly. Today, I even found a voiced version which seems to be unused,
done with all the professionalism of any other line. I wasn't a fan at first, but this
narrator voice is growing on me.

<audio controls>
  <source src="/sounds/fea6n006.wav" type="audio/wav">
</audio>

Anyway, there are just two and a half missions to go now. I think I could manage to finish
this within GSoC, starship sections and all. I doubt I'll have enough time to finish
Judgment Rites, but perhaps I can get a decent chunk done if space combat doesn't turn out
to be too insane to implement.
