---
layout: post
title: GSoC Week 9&#58; Space, and glitchy planet rendering
date: 2018-07-24T00:30:00Z
tags: scummvm
---

This past week has been spent on space; trying to make heads or tails of the game's
"pseudo-3d" engine. And, while it hasn't been entirely unsuccessful, progress on this
front has been relatively slow.

I started by getting the background starfield working. It involved some trigonometric
functions and matrix multiplication. Nothing too insane, once I figured out what I was
looking at. To complicate matters, the game has at least 3 fixed-point decimal formats,
including a format specifically for numbers between -1 and 1, in addition to using the
processor's floating-point hardware on occasion.

{% include image.html url="/images/gsoc-week-9-space.gif" %}

Encouraged by this early progress, the next step was to make more elements of the game's
intro visible, starting with the red planet the Enterprise flies past. However, when
I finally reached the function which draws space objects to the screen, the function graph
showed me this would be no picnic.

{% include image.html url="/images/gsoc-week-9-graph.png" description="Each box is a block of code, some too small to see." %}

Despite my best efforts, I was unable to quite get this working properly. I discovered
today that I didn't even have an accurate view of the function, because part of the code
is overwritten from elsewhere before it gets called! Perhaps because of this
incompleteness, I was only able to get a sliver of the image to appear in a glitchy way.

{% include image.html url="/images/gsoc-week-9-planet.png" %}

I'll figure this out, eventually. But I alotted myself a week to work on this before
moving on to other things, so I'll come back to this later. It's time to start focusing on
code cleanup so this can be merged into scummvm, as well as finishing up the away
missions. Then, I'll come back to finish space combat and everything between missions.
