---
layout: post
title: GSoC Week 4&#58; Dammit Jim, I'm a doctor, not a QA tester!
tags: scummvm
---

Star Trek's second mission, "Hijacked", is finished. It's very short, only consisting of
4 rooms. Despite this, the devs didn't fail to insert a number of bugs into the mission,
most of them in the final room.

Let's start simple: if you talk to McCoy at a specific time, he has no text.

{% include image.html url="/images/gsoc-week-4-mccoy-text-broken.png" %}

However, there _is_ an audio file which fits perfectly for this situation. So, I whipped up
some corresponding text to go along with it, and inserted it appropriately. Honestly, how
could I let DeForest Kelley's wonderfully snarky voice acting go to waste?

{% include image.html url="/images/gsoc-week-4-mccoy-text-fixed.png" %}

It's not the only voice clip that's unused, either. There are a surprising number of cases
where they clearly intended for some dialogue to be said, but there's problems in the
implementation causing it to not occur; for example, when you try to shoot the Masada
crewman, he's supposed to say something, but due to a bug(?), he didn't in the original.

{% include image.html url="/images/gsoc-week-4-unused-masada-text.png" %}

There's also an oversight with the mission scoring system. You're supposed to combine some
inventory items together to progress through the mission, but you _only_ get points for
this if you do it in a specific room! This is the consequence of each room having entirely
separate codebases; the code needed to be copied for each room, and clearly, they must
have forgotten that the code was duplicated when they made some changes to it.

Lastly, the final room is pretty buggy. Don't read any further if you want to avoid
spoilers.

So, there are three ways to end the mission; either you shoot the Elasi, they surrender,
or they attempt to deorbit the ship. But... these aren't mutually exclusive. In fact, all
three can happen, and the devs clearly didn't think this through properly.

Consider scenario #1: You shoot the Elasi. This aggros them, and they immediately kill
your redshirt, followed by Kirk. However, you can still talk to the Elasi if you're fast
enough.  If you convince them to surrender... they don't actually surrender, despite
saying so, they just keep killing you. If they deorbit the ship, you can call Sulu,
stabilize the orbit, and beam out, WHILE THEY'RE STILL SHOOTING YOU.

<video autoplay="autoplay" loop="loop" width="768" height="512">
  <source src="/images/gsoc-week-4-kirk-killed.webm" type="video/webm">
</video>

Scenario #2: You talk to the Elasi, and you choose the worst option, causing them to both
deorbit the ship and start shooting you. This one's funny, because there's _no way_ to
finish the mission in a way that makes sense. You can do one of two things:

Scenario #2a: Shoot the Elasi. This is sensible since you only have a few seconds before
they kill you. After this, the mission is "successful", even though you never save the
Masada from deorbiting. I guess the security team that beams over dies when the ship goes
down...

Scenario #2b: Call Sulu to prevent the ship from deorbiting. This results in the same
issue as scenario #1.

It's a mess. I've tried to fix things as best I can, by requiring that if the ship is
being deorbited, shooting the elasi doesn't end the mission, and vice-versa; saving the
ship from deorbiting doesn't end the mission if the Elasi are still a threat. Also, if the
Elasi say they surrender, they actually do surrender now.

There are many more minor bugs, such as the Elasi guards freezing up if you shoot one of
them at a specific time; but I'd be here all day if I listed them all. I've put down
"BUGFIX" tags in the source code whenever something like this comes up. I've no doubt I'll
encounter more while working on the next mission.
