---
layout: post
title: GSoC Week 5&#58; Star Trek Teaches Chemistry&#58; How to Make Laughing Gas
tags: scummvm
---

Mission 3: Love's Labor Jeopardized. It's about 90% finished.

The mission starts with a rather ear-grating computer voice. Thank god they got Majel
Barrett for the sequel.

<audio controls>
  <source src="/sounds/compu188.wav" type="audio/wav">
</audio>

That said, this is a neat mission. You're given information about various chemical
compounds that may be useful in the mission, then you need to figure out which ones are
important and mix up some ingredients to cure a virus that's running loose through the
station.

Or you can just, you know, inhale some laughing gas instead.

{% include image.html url="/images/gsoc-week-5-hug-the-world.png" %}

## Mission bugs

Last week, I promised there would be bugs in this mission. There's nothing
mission-breaking that I've found, though, mostly text stuff.

The most eggregious is a weird textbox I encountered in my casual playthrough. As far as
I know, you'll always encounter this if you take long enough during the mission.

{% include image.html url="/images/gsoc-week-5-concentrate-efforts.png" %}

I also encountered this following bug while writing this blog post. This is part of the
10% of the mission I haven't rewritten yet, though, so I can't explain what it's about.

{% include image.html url="/images/gsoc-week-5-get-name-error.png" %}

Aside from that, there are a couple of cases where voice acting doesn't play when it
should. And, if you look at Dr. Marcus when she's tied up, it plays the wrong file
entirely; only narrating the first half of the textbox. There was an unused audio file
that narrated the entire textbox, so I replaced it with that.

The one thing that might be considered a bug in the mission mechanics, is the way you can
give water to the Romulans. Apparently you can get a point in your mission score for doing
that. But, sometimes, if they're unconscious, nothing happens. You lose the water, you
don't get any points, and not even a textbox is shown. It's honestly kind of odd. I'm
still debating what to do about that; for now I've made it so you can't give water to them
while they're unconscious.

## Other oddities

There are a number of cases where a single line is read multiple times by the actors,
simply because the same textbox is shown in multiple different rooms. For example, if you
scan the air with the medical tricorder, McCoy says the exact same line, but with
a different voice clip depending on the room. I can just imagine the cast complaining
about why they have to record the same voice clip three times.

Anyway, this mission should be completable in ScummVM within the next day or two. Next
week will feature the return of Harry Mudd in one of this game's weirder missions.
