---
layout: post
title: GSoC Week 8&#58; Set phasers to stun. ...Then kill.
date: 2018-07-16T22:00:00Z
tags: scummvm
---

Last week was mostly focused on finishing up the second part of the "Feathered Serpent"
mission, in which Quetzalcoatl is put on trial by the klingons for spreading messages of
peace. Kirk agrees to go through a set of trials to prove his honor or something so that
Quetzalcoatl can go free.

{% include image.html url="/images/gsoc-week-8-trial.png" description="Kirk offering a fine defense." %}

## Mission oddities

Last week, I mentioned various ways to get an infinite score in this mission. Well, there
are even more, easier ways to do so in the second half, including:

* Repeatedly scanning a door lock with Spock.
* Repeatedly scanning an energy life-form with Spock.
* Repeatedly carving out part of a room with a phaser.

All of the above are in a single room. This room also interestingly allows you to cancel
a death if you react fast enough.

{% include image.html url="/images/gsoc-week-8-death-bug.gif" %}

In addition, this mission has two endings (three if you just give up defending
Quetzalcoatl entirely). The "main" win method is to discover a weird alien room, which is
probably what most people did.

The secondary method is very obscure, and I suspect most people don't know about it. If
you don't discover the alien room, you instead must pass a Klingon automaton blocking you.

{% include image.html url="/images/gsoc-week-8-automaton.png" %}

Since the solution is so obscure, I'll just tell you. Using the stun phaser doesn't work;
after two shots, it kills the crew. Using the kill phaser doesn't work, either; it kills
the crew after only one shot.

So, what's do be done? Use the stun phaser, THEN the kill phaser. That will give it just
enough energy to overload before it can take out the crew. ...Naturally...

{% include image.html url="/images/gsoc-week-8-too-easy.png" desc="A room I'd never seen in my casual playthrough." %}

On my casual playthrough, I completely gave up on passing the automaton, since I already
knew about the other method of completing the mission. This is an "inferior" way to
beat the mission, anyway, but it's interesting that it's locked behind such an obscure
solution.

## What's next

For now, I'm taking a break from the repetitive mission logic to take a look at the
pseudo-3D and ship combat stuff. I really have no idea how long this will take, but I felt
I needed to look at something fresh and different. Regardless, my primary mission is to
get the away missions working and I only have 3 weeks left (officially), so I'll return to
that if time doesn't allow me to finish the starship stuff. Due to the belatedness of this
post, there'll be another later this week.
