---
layout: post
title: Oracle of Ages & Seasons Link Cable Vulnerabilities (CVEs pending)
tags: oracles
---

I have uncovered multiple vulnerabilities, including a severe Remote Code
Execution (RCE) vulnerability, in the link cable communication module of "The
Legend of Zelda: Oracle of Seasons" for the Game Boy Color. The vulnerability is
caused by a failure to sanitize inputs received over the link cable.

Oracle of Ages, the sister game to Oracle of Seasons, is also affected by these
vulnerabilities, and remote code execution is believed to be possible. However,
the scope of the vulnerability's impact has not been investigated as deeply,
given that this software already has an unpatched Code Execution vulnerability
which does not involve use of a Link Cable. By contrast, this is the first known
code execution vulnerability in Oracle of Seasons.

In this report, I will demonstrate how the previously-known code execution
exploit in Oracle of Ages can be used to achieve Remote Code Execution in Oracle
of Seasons by sending corrupted file data over the link cable. I will
demonstrate a proof-of-concept exploitation by warping directly to the credits
in Oracle of Seasons within seconds of opening the file for the first time.
Speedrunners of the "[Linked Any%](https://www.speedrun.com/oracle)" category
will find this to be either an alarming development or a welcome one, depending
on their attitude towards Oracle of Seasons.

## Background

The Legend of Zelda: Oracle of Ages and Seasons are a pair of video games for
the Game Boy Color released in 2001. As they were released simultaneously, they
have a unique "linking" system which must be used to unlock the "true" ending of
the two games. Because not all players had a Gameboy Link Cable, the games could
alternatively communicate via a series of "passwords". I have previously
described [non-exploitable
bugs](https://stewmath.github.io/breaking-secrets-in-ages-seasons/) in this
password system; however, this is the first time the Link Cable feature has been
thoroughly audited.

{% include image.html url="/images/link-vuln-ages-seasons.png"
description="Oracle of Ages (left) and Seasons (right)." %}

While these two games share the same code base, surprisingly, very few
exploitable bugs have been discovered in Oracle of Seasons when compared to
Oracle of Ages. (In this context, "exploitable bug" means a bug that can be used
to beat the game more quickly). The only known exploitable bug of note is the
so-called "[Rooster Adventure](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ukA3O3wlM8E)"
bug, and even this was patched in the Europe update.

{% include image.html url="/images/link-vuln-rooster-adventure.png"
description="The Rooster Adventure bug in action." %}

By contrast, Oracle of Ages has a number of routinely exploited bugs including
[shovel duplication](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8UzcwPWTo1w&t=2125s), [text
warping](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eaCbXa5lM7Q), and the infamous [Veran
Warp](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8OejL3ujlSQ&t=5276s). More recently,
Arbitrary Code Execution (ACE) has become so easy that it is [routinely
performed by speedrunners](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8UzcwPWTo1w&t=4940s)
to warp directly to the credits.

{% include image.html url="/images/link-vuln-veran-warp.png" description="Veran
Warp has many buggy side-effects." %}

## Arbitrary Code Execution (ACE) in Oracle of Ages

Because achieving Remote Code Execution in Seasons first requires Arbitrary Code
Execution in Ages, I will describe that first.

In recent months, new ACE techniques have been developed allowing one to write
any byte to almost any memory address, meaning that one can achieve "total
control" over the game. Given that our only input device is the buttons on the
Gameboy itself (the link cable was not used for this), this is no small feat. In
the proof-of-concept video shown below, this technique is used to disable all
collisions in the game. Note that the Japanese version is almost always used
when performing ACE, because the larger character set used for name input is
very useful when executed as code (but it is still possible in principle on
other versions).

<iframe width="560" height="373" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/8RxpaNin-kw" frameborder="0" allowfullscreen></iframe>

A slightly modified version of this ACE technique was used in order to prepare
the Link Cable exploit. Here is how it works:

First, when creating the file, the player inputs the name "ズモゲフフ"
(zumogefufu). There is also a nameable child NPC who is given the name
"ぇヌフコオ" (enufukoo). This will be executed as code later. Then, the player
must play the game "normally" up until obtaining the "Tune of Ages" item. At
this point, the player will have the equipment necessary to perform the "text
warp" glitch in a specific area and reach an out-of-bounds map tile.

{% include image.html url="/images/link-vuln-x-world.png" %}

At this point, if the player opens the map, they will find that their cursor is
out-of-bounds. If they select a specific out-of-bounds tile, the program counter
(pc register) will attempt to jump to an undefined location; what this means is
that it puts some value which is not _supposed_ to be an address into the pc
register. Ultimately, pc ends up jumping to address *FAD5*, which is in the
middle of object memory. Then, by manipulating the objects on-screen, we can
create a "jp" instruction in order to jump to address *E602*, which stores
Link's name. Earlier research by
[SBD](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=KWRXIZd1Glw) goes into more detail on how
this is achieved.

{% include image.html url="/images/link-vuln-bgb-link-name.png" %}

Link's name (ズモゲフフ) corresponds to the opcodes "xor a,D2; ld (cbcb),a".
Since the value of the 'a' register is D5 before this, we are actually putting
value "07" into address "cbcb". (We are not able to input values between
0x00-0x5f with the name, so we need to work around that sometimes).

Address "cbcb" corresponds to a variable tracking what type of menu is opened.
This is normally "02" for the map menu, but by changing it to "07", we change
the menu to the name input screen for the child NPC.

{% include image.html url="/images/link-vuln-name-input.png"
description="Graphics are corrupted, but it works just fine." %}

This is convenient, because in fact, the child's name buffer is stored
_directly_ next to Link's name. This means that the child's name is what will
get executed next. More specifically, because of the bytes surrounding that
name, it will execute the opcode "ld bc,XXXX", where "XXXX" are characters in
the child's name; this is followed by 3 more controllable bytes, and then the
opcode "ld (bc),a".

To recap: We have an Arbitrary Code Execution setup which opens the child
renaming menu, and which also _executes the child's name as code_; this means
we can keep changing the code we want to execute. Even with only 5 bytes to work
with, and even without being able to input bytes 00-5f, this is enough to write
_any_ value to _many_ memory addresses (as long as each byte of the address is
between 60-ff).

There is just one remaining problem: If we want to use all 5 bytes in the
child's name, we need some kind of "return" opcode. In this case, the "rst 38"
opcode effectively functions as that. The child's initial name, "ぇヌフコオ",
writes this opcode (0xFF) to address *C611* (E611 is a mirror of C611).

{% include image.html url="/images/link-vuln-bgb-child-name.png"
description="Note that address E611 now has opcode 'rst 38'." %}

We now have the ability to write bytes to a very large range of memory
addresses. Now that I've shown how to gain this ability in Oracle of Ages,
I will show how it can be used to exploit vulnerabilities in Oracle of Seasons
over the link cable.

## Link Cable Background

In the file select screen, there is an option to "link" with another game if it
is connected through the link cable. For example, after completing an Oracle of
Ages file, Oracle of Seasons can link to it to initialize a new file based on
the Ages file. If this process is successful, a 0x16-byte "file header" is
transferred across the link cable, and this data is used to initialize the file.
This data includes, but is not limited to:

- Link's name
- Child's name
- Animal companion (you can choose one of 3 "companions" to help in the game)
- File properties, such as whether it's marked as completed

The 0x16-byte headers for each of the three files (0x42 bytes total) are stored at
address 4:d98d. They correspond to the bytes from addresses c600-c615 during
normal gameplay.

## Link Cable Vulnerability 1: File Corruption During Initialization

There are two boolean variables from the file header that are key to this
vulnerability, the "linked game" and "hero's game" variables. The important
thing to understand is that these are supposed to be either 0 or 1, but we can
modify them with ACE in the Ages file to be any value. This is problematic when
the following code gets run (code snippet [from the
disassembly](https://github.com/Stewmath/oracles-disasm/blob/75600b4a18f67be2003aec548d43924ff2f4bb9f/code/fileManagement.s#L17)):

{% highlight asm %}
    ; Load in a: wFileIsHeroGame (bit 1),
    ; wFileIsLinkedGame (bit 0)
    ld hl,wFileIsHeroGame
    ldd a,(hl)
    add a
    add (hl) ; wFileIsLinkedGame
    push af
    
    ; Initialize data differently based on whether
    ; it's a linked or hero game
    ld hl,initialFileVariablesTable
    rst_addDoubleIndex ; hl += a * 2
    ldi a,(hl)
    ld h,(hl)
    ld l,a
    call _initializeFileVariables

[...]

initialFileVariablesTable:
	.dw _initialFileVariables_standardGame
	.dw _initialFileVariables_linkedGame
	.dw _initialFileVariables_heroGame
	.dw _initialFileVariables_linkedGame

{% endhighlight %}

The above code is assuming that the variables "wFileIsLinkedGame" and
"wFileIsHeroGame" are 0 or 1, but they can be anything. By setting them to value
4 or greater, it will attempt to read a nonexistent entry from
"initialFileVariablesTable". The result: it uses completely garbage data to
initialize the file.

This can only be used to corrupt values within a 256-byte range (address c6xx
during normal gameplay), but this is a highly critical region of save data. It
holds the 0x16-byte file header described earlier, the current room Link is in,
his inventory items, many game progression flags... there is a lot to work with.

Setting the "wFileIsLinkedGame" variable (c612) to an invalid value in Oracle of
Ages will trigger this corruption in Oracle of Seasons when they are linked. In
most cases, the results are interesting, but not very controllable. There are
two values of particular note, however.

The first value is *0x2b*, which causes the game to read the initial file data
from address *2312*. This points to ROM, so the results are 100% consistent; it
creates a strange file where Link starts in a completely different room from
normal, Link seems to have a corrupt / non-existent item, and attempting to talk
to a nearby NPC crashes the game. This by itself isn't exactly useful, but it
has some properties that make it helpful when used in combination with the 2nd
link cable vulnerability, described later.

{% include image.html url="/images/link-vuln-weird-file.png" %}

The second value is *0x4f*, which reads initial file data from address *4:f9c9*.
This is a mirror of address *4:d9c9*, which is part of the "file header" data
transferred over the link cable; in particular, this points to the last 6 bytes
of file 3's header. Of course, this is fully controllable from Oracle of Ages.
Having 6 bytes is enough for us to overwrite any 3 addresses in the c6xx range
with any value we want.

This seems like it should be very powerful, but there are limitations. First of
all, if we want to change the room Link spawns in, we'll also need to overwrite
an event flag that will disable a cutscene at the start of the game, otherwise
Link will be unable to move. We may also want to overwrite another event flag to
enable the inventory or map menus to be opened; and already, we've used up all
3 address writes. Still, this precise control does allow for some very
interesting setups, such as this file where Link spawned into the final dungeon
equipped with a level 0 sword. (Sadly this isn't enough equipment to actually
defeat the final bosses.)

{% include image.html url="/images/link-vuln-twinrova-spawn.png" %}

Given that many files corrupted in this way have a tendency to crash the game,
remote code execution could very likely be achieved with this vulnerability
alone; but, it was unnecessary, since the vulnerability described below achieved
RCE easily and reliably.

## Link Cable Vulnerability 2: Corrupted Animal Companion

As mentioned earlier, the "animal companion" is an animal who helps the player
throughout the game. Expected values for this variable are 0x0b (Ricky the
kangaroo), 0x0c (Dimitri the dodongo), and 0x0d (Moosh the flying bear).

Of course, this can be corrupted in the Oracle of Ages file prior to linking. In
my [previous
research](https://stewmath.github.io/breaking-secrets-in-ages-seasons/) on
vulnerabilities in the password system, I described how the companion could be
set to any value between 0x00-0x0f.  However, when the Link Cable is used, we
can set it to any value between 0x00-0xff.

In both Oracle of Ages and Oracle of Seasons, this can trigger a vulnerability
in the map screen. Because the layout of the map actually changes based on which
animal companion was selected, some code is run which overwrites a rectangular
section on the map with different tiles based on who the animal companion is. As
it turns out, setting the animal companion to a high value can instead cause it
to overwrite unrelated sections of memory. This happens because, again, the game
attempts to read undefined values from a table, as shown in the [following
code](https://github.com/Stewmath/oracles-disasm/blob/75600b4a18f67be2003aec548d43924ff2f4bb9f/code/bank2.s#L6312):

{% highlight asm %}
	; If the companion is not ricky, perform
	; appropriate minimap tile substitutions.
	ld a,(wAnimalCompanion)
	sub $0c ; Dimitri
	call nc,mapMenu_performTileSubstitutions

[...]

mapMenu_performTileSubstitutions:
	ld hl,mapMenu_tileSubstitutionTable
	rst_addAToHl
	ld a,(hl)
	rst_addAToHl

@nextSubstitution:
	ldi a,(hl)
	or a
	ret z

	ld b,a

	; de = destination
	ldi a,(hl)
	ld e,a
	ldi a,(hl)
	ld d,a

	; hl = src
	ldi a,(hl)
	ld c,a
	ldi a,(hl)
	push hl
	ld h,a
	ld l,c

	; b = height, c = width
	ld a,b
	and $0f
	ld c,a
	ld a,b
	and $f0
	swap a
	ld b,a

	; Code after this copies a rectangular area
	; of data from "hl" to "de".

[...]

; This is a table of tile substitutions to perform on
; the overworld map in various situations.
mapMenu_tileSubstitutionTable:
    .db @subst0 - CADDR
    .db @subst1 - CADDR
    .db @subst2 - CADDR
    .db @subst3 - CADDR
    .db @subst4 - CADDR
    .db @subst5 - CADDR
    .db @subst6 - CADDR
    .db @subst7 - CADDR
    ; Reading values past this point will cause
    ; unrelated memory to get corrupted!

{% endhighlight %}

For the Oracle of Seasons exploit, we will use animal companion value _0x44_
(there are several other values that behave similarly). This will cause the
animal companion to write to an address in the range *0x2000-0x2fff*, which is
the [switchable ROM bank
register](https://gbdev.gg8.se/wiki/articles/Memory_Bank_Controllers#2000-2FFF_-_Low_8_bits_of_ROM_Bank_Number_.28Write_Only.29).
Because this occurs while code is executing _from_ the switchable ROM bank, the
code that is being executed suddenly changes under its nose.

{% include image.html url="/images/link-vuln-before-bank-switch.png"
description="Before bank switch" %}
{% include image.html url="/images/link-vuln-after-bank-switch.png"
description="After bank switch (one opcode later)" %}

This could easily cause the game to crash, and normally, it would. But what
happens at first is, luckily, consistent; the program counter ultimately jumps
to address *F81A*, which is a mirror of *D81A*. In this situation, switchable
RAM bank 4 is loaded, meaning that this is actually address *4:F81A* - which is
remarkably close to our file header buffer stored at *4:D98D* (or *4:F98D*),
a buffer which is completely controllable from the link cable transfer!

{% include image.html url="/images/link-vuln-bgb-nops.png" %}

The question that remains, then, is whether it's possible for the program
counter to reach our payload at *F98D*. There are two annoying obstacles in the
way. The first is a buffer at *4:F900*, which stores a temporary copy of Link's
current sprite when a menu is opened. After some experimentation, I discovered
that the sprite of Link facing up while holding an item was one of the simplest
sprites we could use that would not cause crashes or other undesireable effects,
because it contained a useful "jr" opcode (relative jump) that would skip over
most of the resulting code.

{% include image.html url="/images/link-vuln-bgb-facing-up-execution.png" %}

The second obstacle is variable *4:F98C*, one byte before our payload. This
appears to be an unused and uninitialized byte, which means its value depends
entirely on what it happens to be when the hardware powers on. Based on testing
in the BGB emulator, this value is _usually_ 0xff, or the "rst 38" opcode, which
ruins our attempt at exploitation; but it can sometimes be something else, and
we will need to count on this for the exploit to work. However, it's unclear
whether real hardware behaves the same as the BGB emulator, or even if all
hardware is consistent in this regard.

This is where we will combine vulnerability 2 with vulnerability 1 to bypass
this problem. A corrupted file initialized with value *0x2b* for the "linked
game" flag sets the two critical flags which, respectively, bypass Link's
initial "unconscious" state, and enable the map menu to be opened; this
effectively bypasses the 2-minute intro. Also, for reasons that are unclear,
Link initially appears as if he is holding a shield, even though he is not.

{% include image.html url="/images/link-vuln-file-2b-initial-state.png" %}

This particular sprite is _extremely_ convenient when executed as code - it
happens to contain the instruction "jr nz,F98E", which bypasses the
uninitialized byte at *4:F98C* by jumping directly to our payload. This makes
the exploit 100% consistent.

{% include image.html url="/images/link-vuln-bgb-shield-sprite-execution.png" %}

## The payload

Now that we have a way to execute a region of memory controllable by the link
cable, we need to decide on a payload. In order to safely resume execution of
the game, we must do two things first:

- Restore the stack pointer to value *C218*, because it was corrupted.
- Turn the screen back on (it was briefly turned off when opening the menu). For
  some reason, the game softlocks if this is not done.

In addition, we will write value *0x0A* to address *C2EF*; this will trigger the
credits sequence. So, the payload will look like this:

{% highlight asm %}
ld sp,c218
ld a,0a
ld (c2ef),a
jp 02ea     (LCD enable function)
{% endhighlight %}

## Putting the exploit together

Now, I will explain how to prepare this exploit in an Oracle of Ages file prior
to linking with Oracle of Seasons.

First, we will set up ACE in Oracle of Ages by setting Link's name to
"ズモゲフフ" (zumogefufu) and the child's name to "ぇヌフコオ" (enufukoo), as
explained in the earlier section. This gives us the ability to write to many
memory addresses by repeatedly modifying the child's name.

The strategy will then be to corrupt our file by writing directly to the data
for file slot 1 in the Save RAM. Normally, it would be easier to corrupt our
file by writing to the copy stored in the c6xx memory range, and then saving the
game normally, but there are two reasons why we can't do this:

- We cannot reliably write to addresses like c610, because "10" is not a value
  that corresponds to an enterable character.
- The data we want to corrupt for the Seasons payload is _also_ the data that we
  are using for our ACE setup in Ages. If we overwrote it, we would lose the
  ability to do arbitrary memory writes, and we wouldn't be able to finish the
  process.

Writing directly to the save file bypasses these problems, but introduces a new
problem: the file checksum. The game would automatically fix the file checksum
if we modified the c6xx memory range, but this is not the case if we write
directly to the save data. So, we must ensure that the checksum does not change,
to prevent the game from considering the file as "corrupted" and restoring the
backup file.

Luckily, the checksum algorithm is simple: it is the sum of all 16-bit words in
the file. So long as the difference between the initial value of a byte and the
new value is always the same, the difference in the checksum will always be the
same; so, we can fix the checksum by countering that difference in another
variable. We make the following assumptions to ensure that the variables'
initial values are consistent:

- Link's name is "ズモゲフフ" and the child's name is "ぇヌフコオ".
- The game has been saved sometime after initially naming the child.
- If the child's name has been changed, the game has not been saved since then.
- The animal companion is Dimitri (value *0x0C*).
- The file is not a linked game.
- The file has not been completed.

In order to write to Save RAM, the first thing we must do is write value *0x0A*
to any address in the range *0x0000-0x1FFF*. This will [unlock the Save
RAM](https://gbdev.gg8.se/wiki/articles/Memory_Bank_Controllers#0000-1FFF_-_RAM_Enable_.28Write_Only.29_3)
between addresses *A000-BFFF* and allow us to write to it. This can be
accomplished by setting the child's name to "ろろフケの" (rorofukeno):

{% include image.html url="/images/link-vuln-bgb-unlock-sram.png" %}

Then, we will begin writing the payload to file 1, in addition to the corrupted
"Animal Companion" (A070) and "Linked Game" (A072) values necessary to corrupt
the Oracle of Seasons file as described in the above sections. We must also
write a nonzero value to the "Completed File" (A074) variable in order to be
able to perform the link at all; this variable will double as one of the two
checksum fixers. The table below shows all names that must be entered, the
address they modify, and what the value is changed to. Note that the "SRAM"
address is the one that is actually written to, but the "WRAM" copy is also
noted for reference.

| WRAM      | SRAM      | Initial       | New       | Chksm      | Name     | Comment                                                                                    |
|-----------+-----------+---------------+-----------+---------------+----------+--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| c604      | a064      | ea            | 31        |         -00b9 | おぞララ | ld sp,c218                                                                                 |
| c605      | a065      | cb            | 18        |         -b300 | かぞラゼ |                                                                                            |
| c606      | a066      | cb            | c2        |         -0009 | きぞヌシ |                                                                                            |
|-----------+-----------+---------------+-----------+---------------+----------+--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| c607      | a067      | 00            | 3e        |         +3e00 | くぞラハ | ld a,0a                                                                                    |
| c608      | a068      | 01            | 0a        |         +0009 | けぞラプ |                                                                                            |
|-----------+-----------+---------------+-----------+---------------+----------+--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| c609      | a069      | 91            | ea        |         +5900 | こぞヌッ | ld (c2ef),a                                                              |
| c60a      | a06a      | c6            | ef        |         +0029 | さぞヌギ |                                                                                            |
| c60b      | a06b      | cb            | c2        |         -0900 | しぞヌシ |                                                                                            |
| c60c      | a06c      | b9            | -         |               |          | cp c (do nothing)                                                                                           |
|-----------+-----------+---------------+-----------+---------------+----------+--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| c60d      | a06d      | b4            | c3        |         +0f00 | せぞヌス | jp 02ea|
| c60e      | a06e      | 00            | ea        |         +00ea | そぞヌッ | |
| c60f      | a06f      | 02            | -         |               |          |                                                                                            |
|-----------+-----------+---------------+-----------+---------------+----------+--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| c610      | a070      | 0c            | 44        |         +0038 | ちぞラト | Animal Companion|
|-----------+-----------+---------------+-----------+---------------+----------+--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| c612      | a072      | 00            | 2b        |         +002b | てぞラヲ | Linked Game |
|-----------+-----------+---------------+-----------+---------------+----------+--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| c614      | a074      | 00            | 43        |         +0043 | なぞラナ | Completed File |
|-----------+-----------+---------------+-----------+---------------+----------+--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| c681      | a0e1      | 00            | 15        |         +1500 | ェぞラヂ | Fix Checksum |

To speed up the process of entering names, they can be rearranged into the
following order, to take advantage of repeated characters:

おぞララ<br>
かぞラゼ<br>
くぞラハ<br>
けぞラプ<br>
ちぞラト<br>
てぞラヲ<br>
なぞラナ<br>
ェぞラヂ<br>
きぞヌシ<br>
しぞヌシ<br>
こぞヌッ<br>
そぞヌッ<br>
さぞヌギ<br>
せぞヌス<br>

After all the names in this table have been entered and executed, the player
must reset or turn off the game _without_ saving it (otherwise they will undo
everything they just did). If it was done correctly, the file's name should have
changed (it will now include characters that are normally impossible to enter
such as the right arrow sign). If done incorrectly, the checksum will be
incorrect, and the file will appear unchanged due to the backup being restored.

{% include image.html url="/images/link-vuln-corrupted-ages-file.png" %}

An Oracle of Seasons file initialized by linking with this file can then warp to
the credits simply by opening the map as soon as the file is loaded; this will
trigger the Animal Companion bug and execute the file header from Oracle of Ages
that was sent over the link cable. The Oracle of Ages file should be in file
slot 1 in order for this to work. This exploit can be seen in action
[here](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=qIVnw1u46gA&t=6531s).

{% include image.html url="/images/link-vuln-seasons-credits.png" %}

## Conclusion

It is essential that software developers sanitize inputs received from external
sources in order to avoid security flaws such as those discussed in this report.
Nintendo may have thought that nobody would think to send corrupted data over
a Link Cable, but they were clearly mistaken.

The Remote Code Execution exploit demonstrated here could allow a malicious
actor to gain full control over your Nintendo Game Boy. Theat actors may
compromise your Game Boy in order to [run
cryptominers](https://hackaday.com/2021/04/01/mining-bitcoin-on-the-nintendo-game-boy/),
to [encrypt your save data for
ransom](https://www.theregister.com/2015/03/13/ransomware_video_games/), or to
beat a game far more quickly than Miyamoto intended. I advise that you do not
connect your Game Boy to any untrusted devices in order to prevent your system
from being compromised.

## Acknowledgements

The following researchers have helped contribute to the discovery of these
vulnerabilities either directly or indirectly:

- Scorpianman42: Discovered the "Veran Warp" bug in Oracle of Ages.
- Sockfolder: Discovered the [first
  known](http://tasvideos.org/forum/viewtopic.php?p=371540#371540) Oracle of
  Ages code execution exploit while researching the "Veran Warp" bug.
- SBD: Discovered an [easier and more
  consistent](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=g1WgK-DG6PA) method of achieving
  ACE in Oracle of Ages with small payloads.
- The Paper Mario speedrunning community: For the idea of [using one game to
  break another](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=N-JJa9AofLI).
- Stewmat (me): Discovered "Total Control" ACE in Oracle of Ages; discovered the
  Link Cable vulnerabilities and wrote this report.
